Lib_users
=========

Lib_users is a Python script that goes through /proc/*/maps and finds all
cases of libraries being mapped but marked as deleted. It then extracts the
programs name and arguments from /proc/<pid>/cmdline. This information is
presented to the user so that those processes can be restarted.

The reason to do this is that after an update, you might end up with processes
that run for a long time and still use old libraries. In some cases this might
be a security problem, as the library may be vulnerable. The script displays
all the distinct argument lists of processes that have deleted files mapped.
In essence, you get a list of processes and their PIDs. The reason why not 
just the first elemnt of the argument list is presented is that for scripts,
this will always be the interpreter name (i.e. "perl", "python" etc.) which is 
not useful by itself.

If the number of processes is larger than five, only a count of processes will be displayed, the display of PIDs can be forced by useing -v or --verbose.

The script cleans up the list from /proc/<pid>/maps to not display false
positives - some programs have a pseudo file called /SYSxxxx mapped which
obviously is not a library that was updated.

Dependencies
============

The script requires Python 2.5 or higher but is not (yet) compatible with
Python 3. It only uses modules from Pythons standard library, so apart from a
Python installation, there are no external dependencies.

If you want to run the test suite easily, install the nose Python testing
framework. This is not needed for day-to-day operations.

Limitations
===========

The program quite probably only works on Linux (or, at least, only on systems
that have the same maps file structure as a Linux system). 

There might be other false positives than the one included, feel free to send
me test cases (i.e. the maps file that triggers wrong behaviour), so I can fix
it in future versions.

If the script is not run as root, it can not display all processes on the 
system that use deleted libs. In the spirit of graceful degradation, it will
then only display the information for processes it has access to. Usually this
is the list of processes owned by the user that runs lib_users.

License
======= 

This program is released under the GPL-2, which is included in distributions
of this script as the file COPYING. If you want to use it for something that
is incompatible with the GPL-2, feel free to contact me; I'm sure we can work
something out.

Contact & Contributions
=======================

If you want to contact me, my email address is klausman-lu@schwarzvogel.de.
Patches and bug reports (or feature requests, even) are of course welcome.
